>> Kyle Simpson: So
let's think about how it was nice and
easy if we wanted to compose three
maps together because their shapes
are compatible there using
our equational reasoning.
And we know they can be interchanged and
that means that they can
be composed together.
But let's talk in a broader sense
about other things that we
might wanna compose together.
For example, filters and reduces.
If we had a chain of several maps and
a few filters and maybe a reducer or
two, how could we put those together?
And the answer to that
question in transducing.
This is a much more complicated topic.
And I wanna warn you right now.
Of all the things that we've
talked about in this course,
this is going to be one of the most
challenging to wrap your brain around.
It's something that I've spent months
trying to come more to terms with.
And it's still something that
I may say something wrong or
get it backwards or something.
It still kinda sometimes trips me up.
I'm at least comfortable enough
with it that I can talk about it.
But it is definitely
an advanced technique.
Or at least it's an intermediate technique
that builds on the basics that we've been
covering in this course.
So the way I'm gonna present this to you
is actually to show you the end result
first.
And then in sort of an advanced way,
we're gonna talk about how
that solution is derived.
And the reason I'm gonna do it this way
is because what you can actually do
is skip over the derivation.
From here on out.
It is not necessary for you to fully
understand all the mechanics of
transduction, to be able to use
transduction to your benefit.
It is not something that I would
encourage you actively to ignore.
I as a teacher want you to
learn all of these things.
But I also want you to be able to
practically use this stuff and
you don't have to become a mathematician
to use and benefit from these things.
So you're gonna see an API called
transduce that allows us to take advantage
of transduction.
And you will see what Lego pieces
you pass in to make it work and
then we will peak under the covers and
we'll see how potentially some
mathematician came up
with this crazy thing.
But once we've seen that, I don't want
you to feel like you're gonna have
to go through all those mental
hoops every time you wanna use it.
Essentially, pattern match
if you see a map, a filter,
a reduce, or any combination thereof,
that you need to compose together.
Think about your mapper,
your filter and your reducer.
Those three functions
are incompatible shapes.
Map and filter are incompatible shapes.
Because map has a single value in and
a single value out.
But filter, a predicate,
is a single value in, Boolean value out.
That's a different sort of a thing,
it's a different kind of a mapping.
You couldn't take a value and
have it propagate through a filter and
have the value come out on the other side,
it changes its nature.
So you can't really just take a filter and
a map and compose them together.
And you certainly can't compose
either one of them with a reducer,
which takes two inputs.
So if we ended up in a scenario like
this where we had a map, a filter,
and a reduce.
And I don't really care about the .map,
.filter, and .calls themselves.
What I care about is the add1,
isOdd, and sum.
Those three are incompatible shapes and
I would like to be able
to compose them together.
But I can't see how to do that readily
with just my regular compose utility
because of their incompatible shapes.
So what we're gonna talk about
this transduction technique
is a mathematical transformation
of those functions.
It literally reshapes those functions so
that they become a compatible shape
that can be composed together.
In other words,
transducing is composition of reducers.
Transduction, transducing
is composition of reducers.
In other words, we don't wanna compose
a mapper and a predicate and a reducer.
What we wanna do is turn the mappers and
predicates into reducers.
And then we want a mathematical transform
that allows reducers to compose together.
And that is the magic that this tool we're
about to look at is gonna give us this API
that's been built.
That's the magic it's gonna give us.
We're gonna show you under the covers
how you will do it manually and
talk about why that's
a terrible idea to do.
You could manually put all of these
three together into a reduce.
You could manually say I'm
gonna first add it and
then I'm gonna call the if
statement with the predicate.
And then I'm gonna do a reducer
to compute the new total and
that could be your reduction.
And this is showing you again, the power
of reducers, which is that they are this.
They are this powerful that they can
literally do mapping and filtering and
reduction all at the same time.
But what does this, what do
the lines 9 through 13 shout out at
you in plain and obvious language?
>> Speaker 2: Imperative code.
>> Kyle Simpson: Imperative,
that is the imperative approach.
So yes you can do that.
And it would probably be better
to do that than to do nothing,
especially if you have
large data structures.
But this isn't the functional
way of doing it.
We don't wanna come up
with imperative solutions.
We want declarative
mathematical solutions, and
that's what transducing is, okay?
So instead of doing that,
we don't wanna take that approach.
Instead of doing that we
want to use transducing.
Here's how transducers works.
We have a compose function,
which is exactly the same as
the Compose that we've seen.
There's literally no difference.
It's not a special compose.
But notice what I'm composing here,
I'm not composing add one and is odd.
I am composing this thing
that has come back from
these two different little utilities,
map producer and filter producer.
Those are utilities which
will be provided to you
by your functional programming
library that supports transition.
So you don't have to
write those utilities.
You just have to use them.
And the way you know how to use
them is if you have a mapper,
you pass it to a thing
called map producer.
If you have a filter, you pass it to
a thing called filter reducer, and
if you have a reducer,
you don't need to pass it to anything,
because it's already a reducer okay?
It's a mathematical thing that is
essentially reshaping the map, into
a reducer, or a mathematical thing that
is shaping the filter, into a reducer.
The way it does that's kind of magical.
And we'll talk about it but
it's reshaping them into reducers.
A special kind of reducer, not exactly
the same kind as you might expect.
It's a special kind of
reducer that is composable.
So how do we put these together then.
Because you notice I didn't
list some in the composition.
That's because those,
the result of MapReducer and
the result of Filter Reducer
are a special kind of reducer, which is,
it's not really ready yet.
It needs a reducer to be passed
to it to become a reducer.
And I know that sounds strange.
But it's like in this prototype stage,
it's like,
I can become a reducer as long
as you pass me a reducer.
That's what those utilities are doing.
That's the mathematical shape
transformation that they're doing.
So we compose those things of
that prototypical shape together.
And that becomes what
we call a transducer.
So specifically a transducer
is one of those prototypal
shaped producers, which will become
a reducer if passed a reducer.
Okay, that's what a transducer is.
So how are we going to use that thing?
We're gonna make that transducer, notice
that I did not add in my final reducer.
The reason I didn't add in my final
reducer is it's the thing we're gonna pass
in to make all of that into a reducer,
right?
I said a transducer needs
a reducer passed into it.
So I'm holding some back.
I didn't include it in the composition.
The function itself is going to
become the input to this composition.
And that mathematical transformation
then produces this composed reducer.
So how are we going to use it?
We're gonna call a utility
called transduce.
This again will be provided to
you by a functional library.
And we're going to pass in
a transducer which we've made.
And we're gonna pass in a reducer,
a combinator, which we have here,
in this case, the sum function.
We're gonna pass in an initial value,
that's the zero.
And we're gonna pass in our data
structure, in this case, the array.
Those are the four pieces
that transducers needs.
It needs the transducers.
It needs the reducer that is going
to get passed into that thing
to produce the reducer.
It needs the initial value, and
it needs the data structure.
And what it does under the covers is
it passes some in the transducer for
us producing that new composed reducer.
And then it reduces the list with
that new reducer.That's it actually.
Actually all of the hard work was done
by Map Producer and Filter Reducer.
Transduce as a function is two lines long.
It doesn't do much.
It simply passes one thing into another
and calls a reduce on it, okay?
So, There is another helper
which makes it even easier.
Another helper that is generally provided
by this libraries and it's called into.
You'll notice that into
is taking our reducer,
I mean our transducer,
our initial value and our array.
But what's missing is that we didn't
need to provide it a reducer.
Because what into does, is it looks at
the data type of the initial volume.
In this case it's a number.
And it says, I know what kind
of combinator numbers need.
Numbers need a thing that
adds two numbers together.
That's the general Combinator for numbers.
So it automatically supplies us a thing
that looks like the sum function.
If we had said into transducer and
we'd given in the string,
then into would substitute in,
a string concatenation combinator.
If we had passed it an array, it would
institute an array push combinator.
So it knows, based upon the data type,
what kind of combinator,
what kind of reducer is needed.
We don't even need to pass one in.
So either what we do on line 10 or
what we do on line 18 is transducing.
It is running through the list, just once,
and doing the mapping, filtering, and
reducing, all at the same time.